---
title: "Why did I choose Gatech?"
date: 2018-05-20
tags: [education]
excerpt: "Why did I choose Gatech?"

---
### Fascination ###
If you've followed my blog for a while, you'd have seen that I'm fascinated by how data analytics has changed the way people do their jobs. One of the sectors that have benefited from the adoption of analytics is one in which I am working – the reputational due diligence sector. Reputational due diligence is a process where one examines the character and integrity of an entity. It is an important part of the wider risk mitigation framework that one usually undertakes prior to entering into a deal. Against the backdrop of the tightening regulatory scrutiny, the demand for quick yet trustworthy reputational due diligence methodologies has been steadily increasing.


I have witnessed firsthand the positive impact of analytics in the reputational due diligence sector. I used to work at a traditional due diligence company that performs all of its works manually. The company's analysts, then including myself, have to comb through stacks of media articles, litigation files and corporate records to uncover potential red flags – a laborious and costly process. In the past year, I have been working at [Datarama](https://datarama.com), a company that combines human analysis and computational analytics to perform due diligence research. Our team has developed analytic models that enable quick identification of conflicts of interest, political connections and hidden beneficiaries, thus significantly accelerating the overall due diligence analysis.


As a Senior Analyst in Datarama, my main responsibility consists of performing due diligence research on Southeast Asian subjects. Although my work hitherto has been mostly non-technical in nature, I have had the opportunity to collaborate with Datarama's data science team and contribute to the improvement of the company's automated due diligence platform. For instance, I managed a machine learning project that applies sentiment analysis to quantitatively assess how the public perception of a company evolves over time. My desire to understand the analytic models we use had motivated me to take various MOOCs related to data science, including calculus, linear algebra, programming, data visualization and machine learning. These courses and projects have allowed me to appreciate the transformative power of analytics and stirred in me a passion towards the field of data science. I have come to the realization that instead of working alongside data scientists, I would like to be one myself and eventually be in the position to build models that can facilitate due diligence analysis.

### Why OMSA? ###
I believe that [Georgia Tech's OMSA](http://www.analytics.gatech.edu/) is a perfect stepping stone for this career realignment. In addition to being technically rigorous, the OMSA curriculum provides ample room for interdisciplinary exploration of data science. Several OMSA electives, including Machine Learning and Web Search and Text Mining are especially relevant to my work. OMSA's part-time format will also allow me to directly apply the acquired knowledge in my daily work.


To prepare for my application for the OMSA in June, I am now completing Georgia Tech's [Micromaster in Analytics](https://www.edx.org/micromasters/analytics-essential-tools-methods). This mini-program, hosted by EdX, consists of three basic courses in programming, business analytics and statistics and serves as a teaser as to how the OMSA is like. I've enjoyed it so far.
