
To prepare for my application for the OMSA in June, I am now completing Georgia Tech's [Micromaster in Analytics](https://www.edx.org/micromasters/analytics-essential-tools-methods). This mini-program, hosted by EdX, consists of three basic courses in programming, business analytics and statistics and serves as a teaser as to how the OMSA is like. If you are admitted into the OMSA, credits from the Micromaster will be counted towards the graduation requirement, which



ISYE6501

ISYE6501 is designed as a 'teaser' course – one that gives you a broad picture of the field of data analytics. It is a whirlwind tour of the most common techniques used in analytics. This includes:


- 'Standard' machine learning algorithm, such as regression, kNN-clustering and SVM
- Basics of optimization
- Basics of simulation
- Brief review of concepts of statistics and probability

Having taken other machine learning courses

-ISYE6501 doesn't go into detail i


Course [sylabus](https://prod-edxapp.edx-cdn.org/assets/courseware/v1/74517b49bf005841e9a1c2ec5bb9a8a1/asset-v1:GTx+ISYE6501x+2T2018+type@asset+block/ISYE6501Timeline1-11SummerMay7_2018.pdf)

Prerequisites:
Hours per week:
Difficulty:
Usefulness:

I thought this course was very well done and really is a perfect introduction to many of the options in analytics. If you have decent R skills, then it will make your life easier. Python helps too later in the course for some of the homework. The only downside is that this course moves quickly, each week is a new model, if not multiple models. In the summer, the same homework is given, but you have less weeks, which means each homework has more problems than in the fall or spring. I'd imagine the roughly 12 hours a week I spent on this course would be around 10 or less during the spring/fall

Very high level overview of different models used in analytics. The course is not as technical as you would be led to believe. The R coding homeworks are very rudimentary and the TAs cover what you need to know for the coding homeworks. The mid-terms and exam are not technical/quantitative at all. They are completely conceptual and require no live coding. Overall the course was good as an introduction into widely used models and basic concepts in data science, but is not very technically difficult at all.

I enjoyed this course a lot. It is a whirlwind review of analytic methods. Its a mile wide and an inch deep. Expect to come out of it able to understand and use the language of analytics, but not with enough skill to really implement anything well., Assignments can be tricky, not a lot of programming guidance is given unless you watch the programming office hours(which I recommend). The tests are multiple choice style. I think the challenge of the tests is pretty fair vs the rest of the material. I only have two critical points, the case study part of the class should be more practically oriented(actually doing the problems) and the homeworks don't have enough weight on the grade(they take a ton of time and only count for 9%).
