


On a week to week basis this class has the lightest workload of any class I have taken in OMSA, by a large margin. The homework is so simplistic it's almost pointless. To bring this class up to a similar content level of other OMSA courses you'd basically need to double the amount of content. For example we spent four weeks of a ten week term covering linear regression and it could have easily been managed in two weeks. This is a topic that has been covered in some form or fashion in three of the four other classes I have taken. No one in this class should need this slow an introduction to this topic (this is an advanced core class after all). The topics later in the semester, network analysis, text analytics and association mining were better but they were covered at a pretty superficial level to me. This class would have been better if we dove into the details on these topics rather than spend so much time on a topic that everyone in this class should be fairly familiar with at this point (linear regression)

The homework assignments are not hard, but they do nothing to enhance your understanding of the content or prepare you for what is expected on the exam. Most of the homeworks are basically a reperformance of the sample code provided in lecture. Almost zero thought or analysis is required.

I would have rated the difficulty as very easy if it hadn't been for the final exam. The homework and sample exam questions did not prepare me for the level of detail demanded on the first part of the exam (50 multiple choice questions). Given my performance on part 1 I made a better effort to prepare for part two of the exam. I felt prepared for part two content wise but not prepared for the awful format. Exam questions in a pdf, answers placed in a word document and 30 questions almost all of them requiring coding resulted in a three hour frenzy of coding, alt-tabbing and copy and pasting.

This was another disappointing class from the business school. Based on my experiences in 6203 and 6754, I will be avoiding all other classes offered by the business school unless I see actual evidence of quality content being created. This class just feels like another missed opportunity

## Content: ##
The course covered good material. However, it didn't go into too much depth on the topics. Modules were released every 2 weeks and took about 30 minutes to watch the lectures and around 1 hour to do the corresponding homework. It would be more useful if the released a module each week or went into more detail. Homework was very easy. However, their was only 1 exam (summer) and it was two parts. Part 1 closed book multiple choice, 50 questions in an hour. Part 2 was 30 questions open everything, open response, programming in 3 hours, which wasn't enough time.


##Overall##

Well, it was a very light workload so I had a relaxing summer term (though, this isn't really a good thing because we are here to learn after all). Explanations of different types of regression were clear and useful review. Association rule mining was interesting and new to me. The interviews at the end briefly raised some important issues.

Cons:

Overall, such a missed opportunity from a content perspective. For a course about analytics in business, it was:

light on the analytics side: 75-80% was coverage of traditional regression models. The remainder was mostly very shallow coverage of association rules, text mining, and graph analysis. No coverage of contemporary ML/AI/NLP. No coverage of visualizations/dashboards.
light on the business-issues side: nothing (except an interview at the end) on areas in different industries that are being transformed by analytics, value/customer orientation, analysis of internal projects as investments; and
light on the interconnections between analytics and business: little/no mention of the history of data analysis in business, data acquisition/silos/cleaning, cost/benefit of analytics projects, privacy and security issues, ethics, data lifecycle management/QA, prototyping and agile/lean project management, and operating analytics/ML products in a real setting.
The interviews at the end, though interesting, were bolted-on without any connection to the material or effective application.

This class should have been a historical and current overview of data issues from C-suite, VP, and project team levels, plus weekly hands-on case studies of real analytics projects and problems in business, with an industry expert brought in help guide each one. The course needs to be completely redesigned based on input from industry analytics leaders (such as those the prof interviewed).

##Assignments##
Homework was easy and boring -- basically rote tasks. Mostly type in a few lines of R (or hand-calculate), get some numbers, select the right multiple-choice option.

The final exam was bad. I don't know why the business school has such an irrational preference for rigid exams over applied projects. Part 1 relied on memorization and had several poorly-constructed questions. Part 2 was just a 3-hour proctored slog of R coding and copy-pasting that I managed to finish and review with 2 minutes to spare. High-stakes exams are an extremely poor way to teach most analytics topics --- projects/case-studies actually reflect the work of data scientists in the real world.
